Add description to background shorthand property (#42695)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/background/index.md

sidebar: cssref
---

> The **`background`** [shorthand](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Cascade/Shorthand_properties) [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets all background style properties at once, such as color, image, origin and size, or repeat method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`background`** [shorthand](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Cascade/Shorthand_properties) [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets all background style properties at once, such as color, image, origin, size, and repeat method.
```

- `<bg-image>`
  - : See {{Cssxref("background-image")}}. Default: `none`.
- `<bg-position>`

>   - : See {{cssxref("background-position")}}. Default: `0% 0%`.

Reviewer: Just above here, `<'background-color'>` should be changed to `<background-color>` for consistency and correctness, surely? There are other instances further down too.

Author: I originally thought the same thing, but it's the only value that is an actual property, and the formal syntax has it this way.
<img width="358" height="233" alt="formal syntax showing only the color with a single quote" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c740b542-5c3a-4a0e-a16f-fb299f03af46" />

background: repeat scroll 0% 0% / auto padding-box border-box none transparent;
```

### Property components

The `background` shorthand property enables you to declare all CSS background properties in a single declaration. The background lies underneath the content of an element; the content of an element is painted on top of it's background. When you have multiple, comma separated background values, each is background layer that is painted on top of the previous layers.

The `background` property is specified as one or more background layers, separated by commas. Each layer may include zero, one, or two `<visual-box>` and and zero or one `<attachment>`, `<bg-image>`, `<bg-position>`, `<bg-size>`, and `<repeat-style>`. If the `<bg-position>`, `<bg-size>`, or `<repeat-style>` components contain two values, the first value is the horizontal value and the second value is the vertical behavior. If only a single value is set, that value is applied the both vertices.

> Component properties not set in the `background` shorthand property value declaration are set to their default values.

Reviewer: Feels like this sentence should be moved below the one that follows it, to the bottom of the section.

The `<'background-color'>` value may only be included in the last layer specified.

### Component property order

Because some of the component properties share value types, the order of those component properties within the shorthand is important.

> The `<bg-size>` value may only be included immediately after `<bg-position>`, separated with the '/' character. For example: `10px 10px / 80% 80%` means the background image that is 80% as tall and 80% as wide as the element will be position 10px from the top and 10px from the left of the top-left corner of that element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<bg-size>` value may only be included immediately after `<bg-position>`, separated with the `/` character. For example: `10px 10px / 80% 80%` means the background image is `80%` as tall and as wide as the element, and will be positioned `10px` from the top and `10px` from the left of the element's top-left corner.
```

Each background layer can include zero, one, or two [`<visual-box>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/box-edge#visual-box) values. If only one value is included, it sets both {{cssxref("background-origin")}} and {{cssxref("background-clip")}}. If two values are present, the first occurrence specifies the `background-origin` and the second specifies the `background-clip` value. If no `<visual-box>` values are present, the `background-origin` defaults to `border-box` and the `background-clip` defaults to `padding-box`.

> 

Reviewer: The update is superb; nice work.

### Image painting order

> If multiple comma-separate backgrounds are included, each creates a background layer that are laid on top of each other. The first value in the list is the top layer. If the layer provides no transparent areas, this is the only layer that will be visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If multiple comma-separated backgrounds are included, they create multiple background layers on top of one another. The first background in the list creates the top layer. If the top layer contains no transparent areas, this is the only layer that will be visible.
```

> The last layer is the bottom layer. The background color is always this last layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last layer is the bottom layer. The background color is always included in this layer.
```
